Christmas is a Christian holiday commemorating the birth of Jesus Christ. It is based on the Biblical event described in Luke 2 and Matthew 1-2 of the New Testament. Luke tells the story of how an angel appeared to shepherds and told them that a Saviour had been born to Mary and Joseph in a stable in Bethlehem. Matthew tells of the Three Wise Men of the East (the Magi) who followed a wondrous star, which led them to the new-born child, whom they presented with gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. The majesty and poetry of these lovely verses has won the hearts of listeners throughout the ages. Despite the fact that the Eastern Christian churches had earlier settled on the date of January 6th to celebrate Christmas, the Roman Church set that of December 25th as the Feast of the Nativity of Jesus Christ. Perhaps this was in order to have it replace the important pagan Roman festival Natalis Invicti Solis (Birth of the Unconquered Sun). The word 'Christmas' comes from the term Christes masse, meaning Christ's Mass. So, in the western tradition, January 6th became the Epiphany or Twelfth Night, the date when the Magi arrived with gifts for the Christ child. This served as inspiration for the song "The Twelve Days of Christmas" and its generous list of presents from someone's true love.Indeed, to people all over the world, Christmas is a time of gathering with loved ones and of giving and receiving presents. Some families open their presents on Christmas Eve, December 24th, to the glow of a crackling fire and "White Christmas," "Jingle Bells," and other even older Christmas carols such as "Silent Night," "We Wish You a Merry Christmas," and "The Wassail Song," playing softly in the background. Some families attend the Christmas Eve service or Mass at their church. Many families with children leave Christmas cookies, wassail, or egg-nog, and perhaps a carrot or two by the fireplace as youngsters are packed off to bed for the 1 night, where they dream of what they will find under the tree when they 1 wake up. You see most children under 10 years of age believe wholeheartedly that a magical person named Santa Claus will visit them in much the j same way as Clement C. Moore described in his classic "The Night Be- j fore Christmas," written in 1823. Moore's image of Santa Claus, derived ] from the Dutch St. Nicholas, has changed very little over the years. New generations of toddlers acquainted with Raffi's lovely recordings, still recognise Santa as that cheerful old man with "a beard that's long and white," "a cherry nose," "cap on head, a suit that's red," who comes down [ the chimney and leaves presents for the family. In 1939 another Christmas hero appeared in the united States alongside Santa, when Robert L. May published his touching and humorous story about "Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer." Mien Johnny Marks wrote the words and music to the song of the same name, well, Rudolph did indeed "go down in history," becoming a Christmas symbol as familiar as any other. Perhaps no other holiday has developed a set of customs and symbols as rich and varied as that of Christmas. The custom of hanging stockings on the mantel to be filled with treats and presents is said to have originated in Norway. Pagan tribes from Northern Europe contributed their sacred evergreens and the custom of decorating them with toys, nuts, and candles. Because of strict fire safety laws in the United States the candles have almost universally been replaced with coloured lights, very often designed to flash on and off in intervals, which tends to entrance some and annoy others. Other ornaments and symbols found decorating the Christmas tree are glass bulbs in numerous colours and shapes, peppermint candy canes, wreaths, bells, fluffy white "angel's hair", or shiny tinsel (thin strips of metal foil) are often strewn over the boughs as finishing touches. The tree is usually crowned with a bright star or the graceful figure of the Christmas angel. Decorating the house with "boughs of holly" is a custom, which comes from England. Holly is a bush with shiny red berries and glossy leaves with a characteristic shape and sharp pointy edges. Because it remains green throughout the year it was believed to hold a promise that the sun would return. Mistletoe is another Christmas symbol. It is an interesting green parasitic plant, which grows in globe-like formations high up in the branches of oak trees. Sprigs of it are tied together with ribbons and hung up in doorways. By custom anyone standing under the mistletoe gets to be kissed. This certainly adds to the warmth of the season!